# Blood-Bank-Management-System
This project is aimed to developing an online Blood Donation Information. The entire project has been developed keeping in view of the distributed client server computing technology, in mind. The Blood Donation Agent is to create an e-Information about the donor and organization that are related to donating the blood. Through this application any person who is interested in donating the blood can register himself in the same way if any organization wants to register itself with this site that can also register. Moreover if any general consumer wants to make request blood online he can also take the help of this site. Admin is the main authority who can do addition, deletion, and modification if required.
The project has been planned to be having the view of distributed architecture, with centralized storage of the database. The application for the storage of the data has been planned. Using the constructs of MS-SQL Server and all the user interfaces have been designed using the ASP.Net technologies. The database connectivity is planned using the “SQL Connection” methodology. The standards of security and data protective mechanism have been given a big choice for proper usage. The application takes care of different modules and their associated reports, which are produced as per the applicable strategies and standards that are put forwarded by the administrative staff.
The entire project has been developed keeping in view of the distributed client server computing technology, in mind. The specification has been normalized up to 3NF to eliminate all the anomalies that may arise due to the database transaction that are executed by the general users and the organizational administration. The user interfaces are browser specific to give distributed accessibility for the overall system. The internal database has been selected as MS-SQL server 2000.The basic constructs of table spaces, clusters and indexes have been exploited to provide higher consistency and reliability for the data storage. The MS-SQL server 2000 was a choice as it provides the constructs of high-level reliability and security. The total front end was dominated using the ASP.Net technologies. At all proper levels high care was taken to check that the system manages the data consistency with proper business rules or validations. The database connectivity was planned using the latest “SQL Connection” technology provided by Microsoft Corporation. The authentication and authorization was crosschecked at all the relevant stages. The user level accessibility has been restricted into two zones namely.
